Work come back.
We have our little program which is a table program.
It's almost as good as axil.
Well not barely or not not even close but what we will add in this video is how to pretty much add a
row in here by pressing this button and we will check out how to do that correctly so let's go ahead
and start with just creating it in general.
So let's just say we want to add a road to our table widget.
And the cool thing is there is a very simple method here called insert row.
And as you can see there's also something called insert column.
But let's just start with insert row as you can see it expects an int.
So let's just say OK well if you expect and then I'm just going to give you zero.
So let's save this file and run it again and push the button.
And as you can see suddenly we have this additional entry and actually with me comment those two out
because it's confusing a little bit and it's wrong and again I press a button and as you can see now
it has added a row and I press it again.
And as you can see it's adding rows all the time.
So each time I press a button it adds a row can add some text high and some number.
And as you can see it always adds it below it can.
So now we have this little issue.
How do we enter the proper value.
So we're adding value to because we have two entries right.
So why don't we say insert ero after the second one.
All right perfect.
That's exactly what I wanted.
So let me add some text in here.
Let's say New York and it has a gazillion inhabitants.
And then I want to add another row sort of impressive again on them.
That's not what I wanted.
Why is it like that.
Why is there a you in here I want to test it in the bottom of it.
Well let's add some text in here again.
Press the button and again.
So.
Always putting it adds value to and as you know it starts with zero.
So 0 1 and then to it inserts the rope.
So that's why it's always going to be inserted here off to Berlin in this case.
Now if I want to make sure that it always is at the end I need to create a workaround.
So let's say I just want to see how many rows there are.
Well there is a variable Actually there is a property but we can get that property by using the method.
And that is called RHO count.
So RHO count will give us the value of how many rows there are in our table widget.
So let me run that again and run it.
We can see we get two as the result.
So let me press the button again get three at four.
So it's telling us the value just before it inserts the row OK.
So what we could do is pretty much say OK check out how many rows there are and then just put it below
the amount of rows that we have.
All right so how would we do that.
So I could just say use the rockhound here.
For answered Rob so I'm just going to copy this code here and I'm going to replace the two with it.
So let's test this again.
Stop the code.
Run it again.
Now let's see what happens.
OK so now we have this new line that looks good.
I'm going to answer something here like New York and it has an a big amount of number or values or inhabitants.
Each inhabitant is a value now.
So we have this very cryptic number which is a city somewhere on a different planet and it has this
amount of inhabitants.
But as you can see now it adds a row just below.
And that's exactly what we would expect.
And what we would want right now as can see now I can scroll here.
So it's taken care of already so scrolling is already perfectly taken care of our cute table widget
as it can see the tail widget has a scroll button or scroll bar once there are too many rows to display
on the size of the window that we have here.
So what if I would like to have values in there so I don't want it to be an empty entry each time I
press.
But I want there to be some values.
Well I can for example very easily say OK Ed Budapest at road 2 and column 0 and the inhabitants amount
at the same row and column 1.
So let's run that again and let's press the button and while perfect that's exactly what I wanted.
But what happens if I press again call them doesn't work.
So I would like to have let's say a default value here or a random value or something like that then.
Well this approach doesn't seem to work.
But how do we fix that.
Well the problem is that I'm using a fixed value here so I'm using a value of two but I actually should
use a different value in here.
Now of course I could say OK added the same row that you have added this new row.
So we know that it's at row count right.
So we could of course go ahead and copy and paste this rockhound in there but that's a little bit difficult
to read afterwards so the better choice would be to say OK I want to store that in a variable called
row count or just row.
We could call the roll we could roll call the road count and instead of using this whole text in here
I'm just going to use the row because it's the same value right and the same for this row and the same
for the road down here.
So now it's just going to add Budapest's with a value for each new entry that we've created.
So let me test that.
And as you can see we get Budapest's oppress again we get Budapest and so forth.
So each time we press the button we add any row and that new row is being added at the bottom and it
automatically gets a specific text that we have defined for column 0 and column 1.
And in general we have to be very careful here again because as you know Python and any programming
language in general they start counting at zero.
Not like we humans.
We start with one.
But what programming languages and computers start with zero.
So that's something that we have to be very careful and very wary about.
All right so now you know how to add additional rows how to enter values into those rows in a whole
table widget and so forth and yet say that's it for this video and see you in the next one.